$Id$

The following TAO applications test and illustate various Portable
Object Adapter (POA) interfaces and their usage scenarios.

        . Identity

                The example shows the identity between servants, ids,
                and references.

        . POA_Destruction

                The program tests the destruction of a POA during an
                upcall.

        . Default_Servant

                This program tests the behavior of
                POA::id_to_servant() and POA::reference_to_servant()
                with the use of default servants.

        . Object_Reactivation

                This program tests the reactivation of a servant that
                has been deactivated but not removed from the Active
                Object Map yet.

        . Excessive_Object_Deactivations

                This program tests for excessive deactivations of a
                servant.  The test checks excessive deactivations in a
                POA with SYSTEM_ID and other POA with USER_ID.  The
                test also check for excessive deactivations during
                upcalls.

        . Non_Servant_Upcalls

                This program check the users ability to make calls on
                a POA during non-servant upcalls.  In this example, a
                servant which is being destroyed during because of a
                deactivate_object() call, tries to deactivate another
                object in its destructor.

        . wait_for_completion

                This program tests the <wait_for_completion> feature
                of the POA.

        . Single_Threaded_POA

                This program tests to make sure that two threads
                cannot call servants in a single threaded POA
                simultaneously.  At the same time, it makes sure that
                a servant can call itself or other servants in the
                same POA while in an upcall.

        . Etherealization

                This program tests for deactivation and
                etherealization of reference counted and non reference
                counted servants.

        . Persistent_ID

                This test checks the combination of PERSISTENT &
                SYSTEM_ID POA policies.

        . Policies

                This program tests the construction of POA policies,
                both through the generic ORB::create_policy interface
                and the PortableServer specific interfaces.

        . MT_Servant_Locator

                This program tests that multiple calls to the Servant
                Locator can take place simultaneously.

        . Nested_Non_Servant_Upcalls

                This program tests that nested non-servant upcalls are
                handled correctly.

        . POAManagerFactory

                The program tests the POAManagerFactory interface. Test may
                be run by hand using "POAManagerFactory -v" to get a verbose
                report of individual tests being run.

        . EndpointPolicy

                Tests for the endpoint policy, the server listens on two
                endpoints, one with an alias rendering it unreachable. The
                server uses the endpoint policy to create two IORs, one with
                the only the good endpoint and another with only the bad. The
                client expects to reach the good ior and expects to fail with
                the bad ior.

        . RootPOA

                This example explains how to obtain the name of the
                RootPOA.

        . NewPOA

                This example explains the operations involved in
                creation of new POAs.

        . FindPOA

                This example explains registering an adapter activator
                for a POA and also the find_POA operation.

        . Generic_Servant

                A simple test interface is defined here and its
                implementations, server and client programs are
                available, which can be used for testing POA
                applications.  Several servers for that interface are
                implemented using different POA policies; a common
                client for all the servers is also provided.

        . On_Demand_Activation

                Contains programs that test the POA's 2 types of
                activation of objects on demand, namely , Servant
                Activator approach and Servant Locator , which depend
                on the RETAIN/NON-RETAIN policy of a POA.

        . Default_Servant

                Contains a File IDL module and its implementation and
                a server,client to test the File Module interfaces.
                The System interface uses the USE_DEFAULT_MANAGER policy
                to create a POA and registers a single File Descriptor
                object as the default servant. The default servant serves
                requests for many Descriptor objects.

        . Explicit_Activation

                This application explains various operations involved
                in the explicit activation of objects; including the
                creation of objects without servants (the servant is
                created on demand).

        . DSI

                The client/server couple tests the DSI features of the
                POA.

        . Forwarding

                The example is used to test the support for forwarding
                in TAO.  Three ways are shown: (a) Forwarding using
                Servant Activators, (b) Forwarding using Servant
                Locators, and (c) Forwarding using POA (this feature
                is TAO specific).

        . TIE

                Shows off the standard TIE features of the new CORBA
                2.2 specification.

        . On_Demand_Loading

                This example illustrates how to dynamically link and
                load servants into a POA in a platform-independent
                manner using the ACE_DLL feature and standard CORBA
                Servant Manager features.  In the example, the POA is
                configured with the USE_SERVANT_MANAGER policy value,
                which relies on an application supplied Servant
                Manager object to supply object/server associations.

                This example illustrates both Servant Activator and
                Servant_Locator interfaces.  The servant object is
                created by a factory function that resides in a DLL
                that is linked and loaded into the server's address
                space on-demand when client requests arrive.  The
                ObjectID in each client request indicates which DLL
                name and which factory function to use to create the
                servant.

         . Loader

                This example is similar to the above except the id is
                not hijacked to store the DLL and factory function
                name.  This information is provided to the Servant
                Managers on creation.

        . Explicit_Activation

                This example is very similar to the
                Explicit_Activation example except that the POAs are
                deleted once the object references have been
                created. After this, an adapter activator is install
                in the RootPOA to reactivate the POAs on demand.

        . Reference_Counted_Servant

                This example shows how to use reference counted
                servants to automatically manage dynamic memory for
                servants.
