$Id$

This directory contains a number of tests to validate that TAO is
functioning correctly.  The individual directories contain READMEs on
how to run the following tests:

        . AMI

          This is a simple test for AMI callback model.

        . AMI_Buffering

          Test the buffering constraint policy when applied to AMI
	  requests.

        . AMI_Timeouts

          This is a simple test for AMI callback model in combination with
          timeouts (relative roundtrip timeout policy).

	. Big_Oneways

	  Stress test non-blocking I/O features in the ORB.

	. Big_Twoways

	  More stress testing for the non-blocking I/O features in the
	  ORB, this time also test receiving big blocks of data.

	. Big_Requests_Muxing

	  More stress testing for the non-blocking I/O features in the
	  ORB, this time we send reliable and unreliable oneways
	  through the same connection.

        . Bidirectional

          This is a test that exercises the birectional GIOP connection
          implementation in TAO.

        . Bidirectional_NestedUpcall

          This test is similar to the $TAO_ROOT/tests/BiDirectional
          test. The only difference is that, this test uses the
          select_mt reactor, which helps the server to make calls to
          client during the upcall.

        . Blocking_Sync_None

          A regression test for [BUGID:858], verifies that SYNC_NONE
	  requests never block.

        . CDR

          This directory contains several tests for the CDR stream
          class.

	. Client_Leaks

	  TAO-1.1.12 leaked handles, this test tries to verify that
	  the problem does not happen any longer by connecting a
	  client to 1000 servers.

        . Codec

          This test verifies that CodecFactory and CDR encapsulation
          Codec support is working properly.

        . Collocation

          This program performs a series of sanity check on the
          collocation support in TAO.

        . Collocation_Opportunities

          A test for making sure the ORB avails all collocation
          opportunities it is presented with.

        . Connection_Purging

          This is a test which stress tests the connection management
          and checks whether cached handlers are purged effectively
          when the process runs out of descriptors.

        . Connection_Failure

          A simple test for connection failures. The client tries to
          connect to an non-existent server.

	. Crashed_Callback

	  A regression test for callbacks, sent as a reliable oneway,
	  to a server that crashes.  The client used to hang on
	  TAO-1.1.12.

	. Crash_On_Write

	  A regression test for bug number 678.  The ORB used to crash
	  if an error was detected during a write() call.  Between
	  betas 1.1.14 and 1.1.15 the ORB would not crash but would
	  dead-lock.

	. DLL_ORB

	  Test that dynamically loads and unloads objects that
	  implement client-side and server-side CORBA application
	  code.  The primary client and server binaries are completely
	  decoupled from the ORB.  If the test fails then it is likely
	  that ORB resources were not reclaimed prior to dynamic
	  unloading (i.e. finalization).

        . DSI_Gateway

          A simple test for the DSI/DII gateway support. TAO can
          optimize some demarshaling/marshaling and data copying in
          the implementation of DSI/DII based gateways.

        . DynAny_Test

          Tests TAO's DynAny feature, which allows composition and
          decomposition of arbitrarily complex CORBA::Any values at
          runtime, without requiring any compile-time knowledge of the
          IDL.

        . Endpoint_Per_Priority

          A simple test that verifies of TAO's endpoint-per-priority
          model works.

        . Explicit_Event_Loop

          This tests the methods work_pending() and perform_work()
          methods of the orb.

        . Exposed_Policies

          This directory contains a test case used to verify that the
          client exposed policies get embedded correctly in the IOR
          and exposed to the client in the object reference.

        . FL_Cube

          Test the integration of the FL toolkit and TAO.

        . Faults

          A little test to check the the ORB can handle server and
          client crashes.

        . Forwarding

	  Regression test for LOCATION_FORWARD messages in the
	  follower thread.

	. Hello

	  Extremely simple test to establish base line and serve as
	  code base for other tests.

        . IDL_Test

          A collection of the IDL examples that have caused problems
          in the past for the IDL compiler. Most files need only to
          build cleanly, except pragma.idl, which generates pragma
          prefixes. These prefixes are checked for correctness in
          main.cpp.

        . ior_corbaloc

          This is test to exercise the corbaname: style URL.

        . IORManipulation

          This program test the basic operation of TAO's
          IORManipulation interface.

        . InterOp-Naming

          This service allows the ORB to be administratively
          configured to return object references from
          CORBA::ORB::resolve_initial_references () for non-locality
          constrained objects.

        . Leader_Followers

          This is a test for server applications that have client
          threads (threads making remote calls) starting before event
          loop threads (threads running the event loop).

        . LongUpcalls

	  Regression test for bugs #175 and #575

        . MProfile

          This program tests fundamentals of TAO's ORB fault tolerance
          by merging multiple profiles in a single object reference.

        . MProfile_Forwarding

          This test evalutes ORB fault tolerance support.

        . MT_Client

          This is a simple test for multi-threaded clients; it just
          creates a simple server process and runs a client with
          multiple thread sharing the same object reference.

        . MT_Server

          This is a simple test for a thread-pool server.  It creates
          a server process with a variable number of threads, multiple
          clients can send requests to it, the requests are handled in
          different threads.

        . MT_Timeout

          Test the ORB timeouts in multithreaded configurations.

        . Multiple

          This test make sure that the collocation scheme works fine
          in case of diamond shaped multiple inheritance.

        . Multiple_Inheritance

          This test exercises IDL interfaces that inherit from
          multiple interfaces.

        . Muxing

          Simple test for connection muxing.

        . Native_Exceptions

          Simple test to show (and verify) that TAO can generate code
          for platforms with native exception support, including
          passing the exception around.

        . NestedUpcall

          Tests TAO's nested upcall feature, which allows
          single-threaded clients and servers to perform callbacks on
          each other without deadlocking.

        . Nested_Event_Loop

          This is a test of invoking nested event loop calls from user
          code, i.e., a call to perform_work() or run() from the
          implementation of the servant.

        . Oneway_Buffering

          A regression test for the oneway buffering features in TAO.
	  It verifies that flushing based on message count, message
	  sizes and timeouts work correctly.

        . ORB_destroy

          A simple ORB destruction test.

        . ORB_init

          The ORB_init test simply verifies that the CORBA::ORB_init()
          call behaves as defined in the OMG CORBA specification.

        . Object_Loader

	  Regression test for the DLL-style IORs.

        . OctetSeq

          Measures the cost of marshaling and demarshaling of
          sequences of octets of different sizes. NOTE: TAO optimizes
          this so the cost should be constant!

        . POA

          Tests and illustates various Portable Object Adapter (POA)
          interfaces and their usage scenarios.

        . Param_Test

          Tests all the features of TAO's protocol engine.

        . Policies

          This is a stress test for the ORB's Policy interfaces.

        . Portable_Interceptors

          A series of tests for the Portable Interceptors feature.

        . QtTests

          This example illustrates the usage of the QtReactor from TAO.

        . Reliable_Oneways

          A regression test for reliable oneways.  It is based on the
	  fact that different SyncScope policies can detect different
	  errors in a request.

        . RTCORBA

          A collection of tests exercising features from RTCORBA 1.0
          specification. Tests exercising TAO-specific RT features
          can be found in $TAO_ROOT/performance-tests/RTCorba.

        . Single_Read

          This is a stress test for TAO's "single read" feature.

        . Server_Leaks

          Try to make the server-side leak resources by connecting and
	  disconnecting multiple clients.

        . Smart Proxies

          Tests the smart proxy feature which allows the user to
          specify a proxy in plaec of the default proxy (stub).

        . Strategies

          This test helps show the various ways in which the default
          and advanced TAO strategies can be dynamically loaded.

        . Timed_Buffered_Oneways

          This is a test for oneways with buffering and timing
          constraints.

        . Timeout

          A simple test for timeouts.

        . Xt_Stopwatch

          This example illustrates the usage of the XtReactor from
          TAO.

        . UNKNOWN_Exception

          Test of handling UNKNOWN exceptions.
