This directory contains a battery of tests that exercise all the
functionality of ACE on Win32 and UNIX.  These tests can be executed
in a single pass via a shell script run_tests.sh (on UNIX) or a batch
file run_tests.bat (on Win32).

We had problems running the batch file on Windows 95 and Windows NT
using the native DOS prompt. However we were able to get around this
problem by using a program called "4DOS for Windows NT" which also
displays a DOS prompt but allows us to run batch files through it.

The tests have been run on UNIX, Windows NT, and Windows 95 and they
all work with the following exceptions:

1. Name_Server_Test on Windows 95: this does not work on Windows 95
   since Windows 95 has a different model for shared memory and does
   not support explicitly selecting shared memory addresses.
 
2. UPIPE_Test and SPIPE_Test on Windows 95: these do not work on
   Windows 95 since Windows 95 does not support the server side
   functionality of accepting connections from clients using named pipes.

3. Proactor_Test (to be added) on Windows 95: this does not work on
   Windows 95 since Windows 95 does not support I/O completion ports.
 
Notes:

1. Each test creates a log file and writes it to the ./log/
   directory. The log directory can be changed in the test_config.h
   file.

2. Each log file contains a time stamp of when the test began and also
   a time stamp indicating when the test ended. If the ending time stamp
   is missing, you can assume that the test did not succeed.

3. None of the tests require any command line parameters. This is in
   accordance with the keeping the test-suite a "one-button" test. If
   any of the tests require any variable parameters these are
   specified in test_config.h.

4. Time_Service_Test executes the Time Server and Clerk components
   as two processes and so the executable "main" need to be present in the
   netsvcs/bin directory. These components rely on config files. Two
   sample config files are also present in the test-suite, namely
   UNIXserver.conf and UNIXclerk.conf (and for Win32, Win32server.conf 
   and Win32clerk.conf). 

Please see run_tests.vxworks for information on the status of
tests on VxWorks.

If you have any questions/suggestions, please send email to
ace-users@cs.wustl.edu.
