$Id$

This directory contains an MFC-based CosNaming viewer that that allows
users to manipulate a Naming Context visually.

Features
--------

        . Displays the entries of a naming context graphically in a
          tree control.

        . Supports configuration of different naming servers.
          Configuration is stored in the registry.

        . Double clicking on an object in the tree will open a dialog to
          examine the object reference.  This dialog will display the
          stringified object reference, repository ID and profile
          information.

        . Supports binding, unbinding, context creation and context
          destroying.  User the right mouse button to pull up the
          context menu.

        . Supports iterator returned from listing a context

        . Initializes ORB with the command line arguments passed into
          the executable.

        . Supports resizing of the main window.

        . Control-c copies the IOR of the currently selected object to
          the clipboard.

TO-DO List
----------

        . Add support for showing the components in an IOR's profile
          (need a patch in TAO before we can do this).

        . Display the object key for a profile.

        . Add support for recursive destroys of contexts.

        . Add support for "pingable" objects.  Pingable objects would
          be pinged and the viewer could then graphically display
          those objects that were "alive" and those that were not
          available.

        . Add configuration options like number of objects to fetch
          per list, auto expanding of the tree, default naming
          service, etc.

        . Add support for cutting/moving/copying objects in the tree?

        . Add ability to configure what is displayed for each entry in
          a context.

        . Right now its just the id and kind, but we could also add in
          the repository id and primary profile.

Issues/Bugs
-----------

        . Need to find a better way of displaying the kind attribute
          in a Name.  Right now we use "." which is ambiguous.
          Perhaps a different color?

        . Consider getting rid of the Select NS button and the name of
          the name service from the main window.  Put the name of the
          server in the window title and allow the user to select a
          new NS from the system menu.

If you have any questions, please contact the author, Chris Hafey
<chris@stentorsoft.com>.
