$Id$

Note that this test is originates from Prismtech's Scarab ID TAO#876 (but entered as tao859_regression);
a bit of a mix up on the original commits.

This test tries to verify that the -ORBPreferredInterface option functions correctly for UIPMC.
There's an obvious elephant in the room in that we can't rely on any build/test machine having
more than one (or any?) interfaces so the test, such as it is, is relying on side effects.
Theres had to be versions of this test: IPv4 and IPv6 and they're pretty different. Additionally
the IPv6 behaviour isn't even consistent across platforms and the build machines can't be relied
upon to have and 'proper' (non-zero conf link local) IPv6 configuration. Basically, if you
want some confidence this is working I'd advise running it on a machine with multiple interfaces with
the debug level turned up and some tweaking. Possibly with wireshark too.

The IPv4 test specifies an -ORBPreferredInterface 225.*=127.0.0.1. It seems that on both Linux & Windows
the UIPMCAcceptor doesn't receive anything from that interface so this prevents delivery and this failure
is effectivel what's tested for. If the server receives no notice to shutdown it stays running and it's 'worked',
Then the same test runs over without the prefrerred interface, the communication succeeds & the server
shutsdown. We deduce the feature as effective.

With IPv6 windows seems to listen to all interfaces so no significant effects can be detected at all easily without
wireshark & more than one real interface. On linux with only Link local addresses it was found that the null
'default' interface doesn't work so the test checks that -ORBPreferredInterface honours a value of "eth0"
(communication succeeds) vs "lo" (communication fails). Obviously this will go horribly wrong if your interfaces
are called something else. With the windows test these unrecognised interface names are not being grokked but
things succeed regardless. It's been confirmed manually that when an interface name (Loopback Pseudo-Interface)
or index # (e.g. 1) is specified it redirects the traffic.
The new property -ORBListenOnAll is also specified to override the UIPMC server
specifying a nil listen interface also. This was found to be preventing the Acceptor from opening at all with
zero conf only link local addresses & the most recent Linux distrib available to test. Older ones don't seem
to need this.
